---
layout: post
title: Design for Understanding
date: 2018-04-02 00:00:00 +0300
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: Understanding.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Js, Conference] # add tag
---
For project two, we, group 13, worked with one another in order to map data with the goal of communicating information with two different lenses in mind: clear communication and reasoning, and persuasive communication and storytelling. The first lens, clear communication and reasoning aims to portray a clear, in-depth, and unbiased representation of the data. The second lens, persuasive communication and storytelling, aims to frame the data in a compelling way.

Our first step in the design process was to go through the data sets from which we could choose and come to a compromise of which we would chose to represent for this project. After going back and forth for a few minutes about why this data set vs that one, we decided to choose the data set from Datasets underlying FiveThirtyEight stories, Tarantino. This data set shows the number of deaths and number of profanities that are used in various Tarantino movies. Each row of the data is as follows:

movie: film title

type: whether the event was a profane word or a death

word:the specific profane word, if the event was a word

minutes_in: the number of minutes into the film the event occurred

After reviewing what the data was and what it represents, we then brainstormed about how we wanted to portray the data. In order to do this, we spend 10 minutes or so, individually, to each come up with as many ways possible to portray the data in a meaningful way. After ample time had passed we reconvened and shared our ideas with one another and sorted them into the two categories corresponding to the two different lenses, communication and reasoning as well as persuasive communication and storytelling.

After we revealed our ideas to one another, we analyzed our ideas. We paired those that were similar together, we took out those that we didn’t think we a good way to portray the data, and we emphasized those that we thought would portray our data appropriately. Some of the ideas we came up with that were worthwhile and we continued to discuss were as follows: a word cloud chart where each cloud is assigned to an explicit and an explicit used more frequently would be represented as larger than those used less frequently; a bar chart representing the amount of times that each explicit and death that had occurred; and finally a swear jar representation that is similar to the bar graph in that the data is being represented by its frequency except, however in this representation the frequency is given a monetary value in attempt to put into perspective just how many explicit are actually used in the various Tarantino movies.

In regards to the swear jar, we thought it was a good way to put into perspective just how many times each word was said throughout the moves and in order to do that, we represented each swear with a 50 cents value. The more frequently the swear was used, the more money placed into the jars. When designing the swear jar, we wanted to take a creative approach to show how absurd Tarantino’s movies are while clearly conveying the data. While we believe that our approach accomplishes the tasks that we set out to do, we thought that the fact that the visualization includes both a graph and an interactive section takes away from the intuitive simplicity of the design. Initially, we wanted the bars in the bar graph to be swear jars and the height of the pile of money in the jar would represent the amount of money one would make for each movie. However, when programming the graph, we were able to construct the bar graph for each film using p5js and CanvasJs, but were unable to put the swear jars as bars. So that section was translated into the section underneath where the user can interact with the jars to see what you could buy with the amount of money produced from each movie’s swears. Throughout the design and development process, we kept in contact with our team members and communicated our progress to one another. Through receiving feedback and comments, we were able to alter our approaches into something that worked. We decided on whatever result we liked the best out of the multiple initial designs that worked within our time constraints. The final result is a combination of a bar chart and an interactive section of swear jars. The bar chart displays the amount of money you would make for each of the Tarantino movies in the data if 50 cents was deposited each time someone said something profane. Below that is a series of swear jars, one for each Tarantino movie in the bar chart, that can be clicked on. When clicked, the money made by the movie is displayed and a display of what you could potentially buy for that much money is shown, which gives the reader a sense of how much swearing occurred in Tarantino films.

https://users.wpi.edu/~cbell2/cs3041-d4u/index.html

In terms of the bar graph that we made, we wanted to keep our visualizations fairly simple. In particular we decided against any multi axis charts or unusual charts such as radar plots. Using a simple bar chart we got positive feedback in regards to the comprehensiveness of this chart. We explored using D3.js to make to bar charts using svg elements. However, we found these results to be very generic and although it communicated the data clearly it wasn’t a particularly novel idea. From there we explored transforming the svg into ASCII characters associated with censoring profanity (#, !, $, &, etc). D3.js made this very easy as it provides a data driven and extremely flexible api. As we developed these visualizations we posted our progress to our slack channel and got feedback for one another. We reached a stopping point based on time constraints, but did complete at least two different designs each. The final result is both simple as it cleanly represents the occurrence of various profanity throughout or data but also includes some memorable components such as building a chart out of ASCII character for profanity censoring.

https://users.wpi.edu/~fegan/cs3041-d4u/

We tried to use a visual queue, in this case, the size of the word to communicate the frequency the word is used. In this sense, with some words growing to absurd sizes, we’re successful in communicating the fact that Tarantino abuses the use of profanity in his movies. However, the execution was crude compared to the ambition We had for this visualization. It lacks interactivity the most, due to the difficulty in implementing such functionality to the code. We thought the best way to portray this visually was with the absence of numbers. The only way to communicate information is by showing the word itself (which may come across as offensive, since the word is laid bare in front of the user) and the size of the font. That’s it. There’s no discrete numbers or any other data apart from the timeline of the film and the time in which each word appears. The goal here is to explore communication of data without the use of numbers, and instead through the use of a more rudimentary characteristic: size. Throughout the design and development process, we provided feedback to each other and refined each other’s ideas, directing the development towards a more thought out and thorough idea. We decided on whatever result was best developed out of the multiple initial designs that worked within our time constraints. The final result is a webpage that “plots” curse words every time they are spoken in a given Quentin Tarantino movie. The accompanying timeline shows the minute in which the word was said. Every time a word is said it shows up on the screen or increases in size if it has already been said. The initial idea was to construct a word cloud using the words, but that proved to be quite complex given the fact that I am not fluent in javascript. Also, the time constraints did not allow for the timeline to be interactive like I desired, which would allow the user to drag the tab back and forth, exploring the density of curse words at a given time in the movie.

http://users.wpi.edu/~lcgonsalves/cs3041-d4u/

At the end of our group efforts, we presented our portrayals to our peers in our class and received a variety of different feedback. A good deal of the feedback was positive and also primarily addressing the swear jar, taking note of the unique use of a swear jar to persuade those who viewed it. Some of the constructive feedback was to make the monetary value assigned to the swears more consistent because there are different types of coins in the jars and the level at which the jars are filled do not correspond with the actually values. Another comment made was about how if the value of each swear were 1$ it would be easier to compare because it would then be a 1:1 ratio. If time had permitted, these would have definitely been things we would have included in our design.

